[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Close your eyes.
And in moments, you're diving.
You're diving within.
It's like soft electricity.
The whole thing opens up
to an unbounded feeling.
Before I started meditating,
I heard the word meditation,
and it meant almost
nothing to me.
It seemed like a fad, and a
waste of time, and not for me.
Being an artist, I
felt like maybe it's
going to fiddle
with my creativity.
Maybe this thing
is going to make
me want to just stop working
and sit under a tree.
I was accepted to the
American Film Institute.
And I was given an opportunity
to make my first feature.
I was given money.
I had all the equipment I
could dream of given to me.
At this point, I remember
standing and looking
at this wall
thinking I should be
the happiest person on Earth.
But I looked inside.
And the happiness was just
a dance on the surface.
Below-- hollow.
I said, whoa.
No inner happiness.
Looking back, I felt
I had a weakness.
I wasn't self-assured.
Even though I had great
desires and ideas,
I had anxieties like
crazy like everybody.
I had a kind of a tremendous
anger toward my first wife.
I wasn't dealing
with a full deck.
There's a thing in people where
for one reason or another,
suddenly they become a seeker.
They just become a seeker.
Somewhere along
the line, I heard
this phrase true happiness
is not out there.
True happiness lies within.
And this phrase had a
ring of truth to it.
But the phrase doesn't tell you
where the within is, nor does
it tell you how to get there.
You need a key that opens
the door to that treasury.
That's the trick.
I might draw you a picture.
This line here we'll say
represents surface of life.
And this here is matter.
And this is mind--
mind and matter.
They say scientists about
200 or 300 years ago started
wondering what was this matter?
What was it really?
And they started
delving into matter.
And in about the
1970s, quantum physics
discovered the unified field,
the unity of all the particles
and all the forces
of manifestation
of creation, unity, oneness.
Everything that is a thing,
including frogs, fish,
babbling brooks, sun, stars,
galaxies, the whole universe,
super structures, and all those
little elementary particles
has emerged from this field.
The experience of this field is
what's missing in today's life.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
I thought maybe this
thing of meditation
is a way to go within.
I had doubts at the
same time, I felt
there was something
truthful about it.
And I wanted it.
And I went and I learned on
July 1, 1973, about 11:30
on a Saturday, beautiful
sunny Saturday morning.
Within the first
two weeks, I started
getting happier within the work,
more happiness in the doing.
Ideas seem to come more easily.
This anger kind of went away.
I got a feeling of more freedom.
And it felt very,
very good to be alive.
A bigger picture of
life started emerging.
Transcendental
meditation opens the door
to this deepest level
of life, this treasury.
In transcendental meditation,
you're given a mantra--
the very specific
sound vibration
thought designed to
turn the awareness
from out 180 degrees to within.
Once you're pointed within,
you will naturally and easily
dive and experience this
unbounded, eternal, infinite,
immutable, immortal field of
consciousness, unity, oneness.
In Vedic terms this
field is called Atma,
meaning the Self
with a capital S.
Another is brahm,
meaning totality.
This Atma is brahm.
This Self is totality.
So beautiful.
This is our full potential
to live totality.
Stories throughout time
have conflict, and torment,
and struggles.
The artist doesn't have to
suffer to show suffering.
You have to
understand the thing.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Every human being has
consciousness, but not
every human being
has the same amount.
So if you have a ball of
consciousness this big,
and you start transcending
on a regular basis,
this ball of consciousness
will start expanding.
What you're doing is making
the subconscious now conscious.
You're unfolding the full
potential of the human being.
You're cleaning the machine
of stresses, anxieties,
depression, hate,
anger, rage, despair,
and fear so you live and work
in more and more freedom.
All positive, happiness,
and bliss, love,
growing from within,
garbage going out,
and those things that
used to stress you
don't have the
same power anymore.
This is magical.
How beautiful is this?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The sunlight in LA
makes me feel freedom.
And it makes me feel the
field of all possibilities.
And that's a nice
thing to think about.
Maharishi said, "Don't
fight the darkness.
Don't even worry about it.
Simply turn on the light."
Get down in there, and
darkness, negativity
goes away in time for sure.
[MUSIC PLAYING]